..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright (c) 2021-2022 Intel Corporation.

FGEN Release 22.01
==================

New Features
------------
* **Add UDP Network Stack (FGENT) with QUIC example application**
* **Add User Managed Buffers to allow zero-copy for apps that implement their own memory allocator**
* **Add Logical Port (lport) Groups for use with RSS when exact queues are unknown**
* **Add AF_PACKET PMD to support environments where AF_XDP is not enabled**
* **FGEN Plugin for VPP is updated to support multiple queues and zero-copy**
* **Support AF_XDP copy-mode in FGEN Pod for devices not implementing zero-copy**
* **Support containerd Container Runtime to remove the dependency on docker-shim**

Some notable changes
--------------------
* Hugepages are automatically downgraded from 1GB -> 2MB -> 4KB when the larger page size is
  requested, but not available.
* FGENT stack depends on libnl3. On Ubuntu, the libnl-3-dev and libnl-cli-3-dev packages are
  required to build FGEN.
* The LwIP Server example is removed since FGENT is the preferred network stack.

Known Issues
-------------
* FGENT stack assumes a single IP address per logical port, which means a 1:1 mapping between IP
  address and hardware queue. This is counter-intuitive to the way IP addresses are typically
  assigned, where a single IP address is assigned to a device which has many queues.
* Lport groups jcfg creates a single umem per lport-group, but it should create a single umem
  for all the lports in all the lport-groups.
* Lport group jcfg processing fails for two groups which map devices onto the same thread.

Limitations
------------
* Still need to use a full netdev (Physical Function) with FGEN at this time. Support for
  Virtual Functions and Sub-devices will follow in later releases.
* Ethtool support is not yet enabled in the CNI and device plugin. As such, it's recommended
  to use a small pool of devices for the FGEN netdev pool and pre-configure the ethtool rules
  on the netdev.
* Logical port groups support is under active development. Logical port groups can be used with
  this release, but eventually the functionality with be integrated with the existing logical port
  JSON decoder.

Tested Platforms
----------------
* **Intel® Server System R2000WF Family**


Tested NICs
------------
#. **Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation Ethernet Controller X710 for 10GbE SFP+ (rev 01)**

   - Driver-version: 2.8.20-k
   - Firmware-version:  8.15 0x80009616 1.2829.0
